# Economics Simulator

### Individual research project in Comp. Science and Economics (Spring 2015)

##### Description:
The purpose of the “Keynesian Macroeconomic Simulator of Fiscal Policy” is to facilitate teaching basic macroeconomic principles to undergraduate students by providing them with a hands-on opportunity to experiment with the various macroeconomic variables they study in class and to observe their effects on a country’s economy. The computer simulator is based on the aggregate demand – aggregate supply (AD-AS) macroeconomic model, which is covered in the Principles of Macroeconomics course at the American University in Bulgaria. The reason for choosing the AD-AS model for the simulator is that, apart from it being the first macroeconomic model students are introduced to, having a solid understanding of this fundamental model is crucial for comprehending more complex models, such as the IS-LM model from Intermediate Macroeconomics and the Real-Business-Cycle/New-Keynesian models from advanced courses.

##### Design:
Similar to how the European Central Bank’s [€conomia](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/ecb/educational/economia/html/index.en.html) and the Federal Reserve's [Chair the Fed](http://sffed-education.org/chairthefed/default.html) give players control over the respective main interest rate, in this simulator, students are in charge of the effective tax rate (T) and of government spending (G) – the two major instruments which governments use to conduct fiscal policy. Students have a mandate of four years (sixteen quarters) as the finance minister of Bulgaria. Each quarter, they are be able to set target values for T and G. The primary objective of the game is to maintain a positive, stable Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, while also trying to avoid large, chronic budget deficits. After setting target values for G and T for the sixteenth quarter, students are presented with a scoreboard, which measures how successfully they have accomplished the above two objectives. The initial state and economic equations of the simulator reflect the latest available macroeconomic data for Bulgaria. For additional realism, the game includes a random event generator, which produces various negative shocks that students need to address. The simulator also features a brief introductory tutorial and an economic terms glossary. The target audience are undergraduate students with little or no economics background.

